Add blog post on Best Practices of Securing Production Debugging in Kubernetes (#54582)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2026/Securing-Production-Debugging-in-Kubernetes.md

This post offers a best practises that one can apply to existing Kubernetes environments with minimal tooling changes:

- Least privilege with RBAC 
- Short-lived, identity-bound credentials
- An SSH-style handshake model for cloud-native debugging 

A good architecture for securing production debugging workflows is to use a just-in-time SSH (JIT-SSH) gateway (often deployed as an on demand pod in the cluster). It acts as an SSH-style “front door” that makes temporary access actually temporary. You can  authenticate with short-lived, identity-bound credentials, establish a session to the gateway, and the gateway uses the Kubernetes API and RBAC to control what they can do such as `pods/log`, `pods/exec`, and `pods/portforward`. Sessions expire automatically, and both the gateway logs and Kubernetes audit logs capture who accessed what and when without shared bastion accounts or long-lived keys.

## 1) Using an Access Broker on top of Kubernetes RBAC

> RBAC is about control: who can do what. You can enforce it directly with Kubernetes RBAC, or put an access broker/gateway in front of the cluster that still relies on Kubernetes permissions under the hood. That access broker is useful for decisions RBAC doesnot cover well, like whether a request should be auto-approved or require manual approval, can a user run a command or not, and what kind of commands are allowed for sessions. This access broker will also be responsible for managing group membership, so permissions are granted at the group level rather than to individual users. Kubernetes RBAC can decide whether someone is allowed to use actions like `pods/exec`, but it can not limit which commands run inside an exec session. An access broker can add those extra guardrails, while RBAC remains the source of truth for what the Kubernetes API will allow and at what scope.

Reviewer: can't / cannot?

If your API server (or your access broker from the previous session) is set up to trust a client CA, you can use short-lived client certificates for debugging access. The idea is:

* The private key is created and stays on the engineer’s machine (ideally hardware-backed, like a non-exportable key in a YubiKey/PIV token)
* A short-lived certificate is issued (often via the CSR API or your access broker from the previous session with a TTL)
* RBAC maps the authenticated identity to a minimal Role

This is pretty straightforward to operationalize with the Kubernetes CSR API.

Generate a key and CSR locally:

```bash
openssl genpkey -algorithm Ed25519 -out oncall.key
openssl req -new -key oncall.key -out oncall.csr \
  -subj "/CN=alice/O=oncall-payments"
```

Create a CertificateSigningRequest with a short expiration:

```yaml
apiVersion: certificates.k8s.io/v1
kind: CertificateSigningRequest
metadata:
  name: oncall-alice-20260218
spec:
  request: <base64-encoded oncall.csr>
  signerName: kubernetes.io/kube-apiserver-client
  expirationSeconds: 1800  # 30 minutes
  usages:
    - client auth
```

## 3) Use a Just-in-time access gateway to run debugging commands

> Once you have short-lived credentials, you can use them to open a secure shell session to a just-in-time access gateway (often exposed over SSH) which should be created on demand. The gateway first verifies that the certificate was issued by a CA it trusts . If the cert isn’t valid, or it’s expired, the connection should be rejected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have short-lived credentials, you can use them to open a secure shell session to a just-in-time access gateway (often exposed over SSH) which should be created on demand. The gateway first verifies that the certificate was issued by a CA it trusts. If the cert isn’t valid, or it’s expired, the connection should be rejected.
```

> The credential should also be scoped so it can’t be reused outside of what was approved. For example, it can be limited to a specific cluster and namespace, and optionally to a narrower target like a pod or node. That way, even if someone tries to reuse the certificate, it won’t work outside the intended scope. After the session is established, the gateway executes only the allowed actions and records what happened for auditing.

Reviewer 2: I would prefer least privilege access specifically kubernetes is used as a shared large cluster with namespace scope across the organization it would be great to add an example for "cluster scope and namespace scope" credentials in this blog for the users.

---
layout: blog
title: "Best Practices for Securing Production Debugging in Kubernetes"
draft: true
slug: securing-production-debugging-in-kubernetes
author: >
  Shridivya Sharma
---

> During production debugging, the fastest route is often broad access such as `cluster-admin`, shared bastions/jump boxes, or long-lived SSH keys. It works in the moment, but it comes with two common problems: auditing becomes difficult, and temporary exceptions have a way of becoming routine.

Reviewer 3: I would explain what `cluster-admin` is (it isn't part of Kubernetes). I guess you mean a kubeconfig file that embeds a certificate with that identity, but I wasn't sure.

Author: What I mean is one getting elevated as a contributor and have read/write access to a cluster or atleast all the clusters under that env ( or scope). Let me make it explicit

### Option A: short-lived OIDC tokens

A lot of managed Kubernetes clusters already give you short-lived tokens. The main thing is to make sure your kubeconfig refreshes them automatically  instead of copying a long-lived token into the file.

For example:

```yaml
users:
- name: oncall
  user:
    exec:
      apiVersion: client.authentication.k8s.io/v1
      command: cred-helper
      args: ["--cluster=prod", "--ttl=30m"]
```

### Option B: Short-lived client certificates (X.509)

If your API server (or your access broker from the previous session) is set up to trust a client CA, you can use short-lived client certificates for debugging access. The idea is:

* The private key is created and stays on the engineer’s machine (ideally hardware-backed, like a non-exportable key in a YubiKey/PIV token)

> * A short-lived certificate is issued (often via the CSR API or your access broker from the previous session with a TTL)

Reviewer 3: (nit)
```suggestion
* A short-lived certificate is issued (often via the
  [CertificateSigningRequest](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/certificate-signing-requests/#certificate-signing-requests) API, or your access broker from the previous session with a TTL)
```

I am not quite sure by what you mean by "with a TTL"; you already mentioned "short-lived".

    verbs: ["create"]
---
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: RoleBinding
metadata:
  name: jit-debug
  namespace: <namespace>
subjects:
  - kind: Group
    name: jit:oncall:<namespace>   # mapped from the short-lived credential (cert/OIDC)
    apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
roleRef:
  kind: Role
  name: jit-debug
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
```
This credential can debug only inside the payments namespace; attempts to access other namespaces are denied by RBAC.

### Example: Cluster-scoped credentials

```yaml
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRole
metadata:
  name: jit-cluster-read
rules:
  - apiGroups: [""]
    resources: ["nodes", "namespaces"]
    verbs: ["get", "list", "watch"]
---
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRoleBinding
metadata:
  name: jit-cluster-read
subjects:
  - kind: Group
    name: jit:oncall:cluster
    apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
roleRef:
  kind: ClusterRole
  name: jit-cluster-read
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io

```
This credential has cluster-wide read access (e.g., nodes/namespaces) and should be issued only for workflows that truly require cluster-scoped resources.

> Finer-grained restrictions like “only this pod/node” or “only these commands” are typically enforced by the access gateway/broker during the session, since Kubernetes RBAC does not restrict command content.

Author: I am doing it differently. But I will read about these and a add note.

---
layout: blog
title: "Best Practices for Securing Production Debugging in Kubernetes"
draft: true

> # slug: securing-production-debugging-in-kubernetes

Reviewer 4: slug: securing-production-debugging-in-kubernetes
date: 2026-02-18

Instead, create a namespace-scoped Role for on-call debugging. For many teams, the minimal set includes:

- Read-only discovery: `get/list/watch` on pods, events, and relevant controllers
- Controlled interactive actions:
  - `pods/log` (`get`)
  - `pods/exec` (`create`)
  - `pods/portforward` (`create`)
- Optional (if you use `kubectl debug` with ephemeral containers): `pods/ephemeralcontainers` (`update`)

### Example: a namespaced on-call debug Role

```yaml
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: Role
metadata:
  name: oncall-debug
  namespace: payments
rules:
  # Discover what’s running
  - apiGroups: [""]
    resources: ["pods", "events"]
    verbs: ["get", "list", "watch"]

  # Read logs
  - apiGroups: [""]
    resources: ["pods/log"]
    verbs: ["get"]

  # Interactive debugging actions
  - apiGroups: [""]
    resources: ["pods/exec", "pods/portforward"]
    verbs: ["create"]

  # Understand rollout/controller state
  - apiGroups: ["apps"]
    resources: ["deployments", "replicasets"]
    verbs: ["get", "list", "watch"]

  # Optional: allow kubectl debug ephemeral containers
  - apiGroups: [""]
    resources: ["pods/ephemeralcontainers"]
    verbs: ["update"]
````

> Bind that Role to a group (not to individuals), so you can manage membership via your identity provider:

Reviewer 4: Bind the Role to a group (rather than individual users) so membership can be managed through your identity provider.
